hi this is Tamara from ugly walk calm
and in this video I'd like to show you a
quick trick for being able to thread a
yarn through a button where the hole is
too small to get a yarn needle through
now when I'm making a project like the
recent project the get whale soon tissue
box cover and I had buttons on here I
just have two buttons and I didn't want
to have to find matching thread I wanted
to be able to use the yarn that I was
using for the rest of the project to
attach the buttons but these tiny little
buttons there was no way I was going to
be able to get a yarn needle or even for
that matter regular sewing needle
through that hole but I can get the yarn
through there using a quick trick what
I'm going to do here is I'm going to
take a little bit of this isjust crochet
thread you can use crochet thread or you
could use dental floss if you don't have
crochet thread around the reason I use
crochet thread here rather than sewing
thread is it's thicker and it kind of
has a little more stand up on its own
you can see here it stands up all by
itself it's got a little bit of body to
it so what I'm going to do is go ahead
and cut off a length of that soshe
thread and because it's got that little
bit of stand-up all by itself I can put
it right through the hole of the button
and then what I'm going to do is hold on
to the other end here and send it back
through the other way this one can be a
little bit tricky if you're having
trouble pull the first half the yarn
down tight to maximize your space within
the yarn hole or excuse me the
buttonhole
sometimes it can take a few tries trying
to keep my head out of the way of the
camera here there we go and it goes on
through all right now moving carefully
we have our loop of crochet thread and
the two ends are coming out the same
side what I'm going to do from here is
I'll take the yarn that I want to use to
sew my button on with put it through the
loop of crochet thread make sure it's
long enough that it's not going to pull
out all the way then using the ends of
the crochet thread just pull it right on
through now I'd stop at this point
pull the crochet thread out of the way
and carefully pull through just one of
the strands of yarn so as not to undo
what we've just done and that's all
there is to it
playing with the crochet thread or
dental floss sometimes dental floss
might actually be a little bit easier
because it's thinner I just use crochet
thread because I'm in my craft room and
that's handy but basically it's the same
technique and you can pull the yarn
right through there obviously there will
be an upper limit I couldn't get a super
bulky through here but this is an errand
weight and I got it through with no
problem and that's all there is to that
little trick of threading a small button
with yarn thanks so much for watching